Everything you've seen
so far in the course,
from selecting your
model to fine tuning it,
and aligning it with
human preferences,
will happen before you
deploy your application.
To help you plan
out these stages
of the generative AI
project life cycle,
this cheat sheet provide
some indication of
the time and effort required
for each phase of work.
As you saw earlier,
pre-training a large language
model can be a huge effort.
This stage is the
most complex you'll
face because of the model
architecture decisions,
the large amount of
training data required,
and the expertise needed.
Remember though,
that in general,
you will start your
development work with
an existing foundation model.
You'll probably be able
to skip this stage.
If you're working with
a foundation model,
you'll likely start to assess
the model's performance
through prompt engineering,
which requires less
technical expertise,
and no additional
training of the model.
If your model isn't
performing as you need,
you'll next think about prompt
tuning and fine tuning.
Depending on your use case,
performance goals,
and compute budget,
the methods you'll
try could range
from full fine-tuning to
parameter efficient
fine tuning techniques
like laura or prompt tuning.
Some level of
technical expertise
is required for this work.
But since fine-tuning
can be very
successful with a relatively
small training dataset,
this phase could potentially be
completed in a single day.
Aligning your model
using reinforcement
learning from human feedback
can be done quickly,
once you have your
train reward model.
You'll likely see if you can use
an existing reward
model for this work,
as you saw in this week's lab.
However, if you have to
train a reward
model from scratch,
it could take a long
time because of
the effort involved to
gather human feedback.
Finally, optimization techniques
you learned about
in the last video,
typically fall in the middle in
terms of complexity and effort,
but can proceed quite
quickly assuming
the changes to the model don't
impact performance too much.
After working through
all of these steps,
you have hopefully
trained in tuned
a gray LLM that is working
well for your specific use case,
and is optimized for deployment.
Congratulations.
In the final sequence of
videos in this course,
you'll explore the
remaining problems with
LLM performance that you
may need to address,
before launching
your application.
As well as techniques
that can overcome them.
Let's move on and take a look.